---
title: 'Cheap Code'
---

LLMs can write a lot of software very fast. They are good at small programs, but bad when the number of lines of code is too high. LLMs reduce the cost of making small programs. By making more programs, cheaper and faster, can we unlock a new market for "ad-hoc" software ? Instead of traditionally shipped vendored software with slow updates for a large market, can we carve out many small niches well-served by many custom programs ? Big complex programs that can do everything are often used in a number of ways. I think most people aren't doing everything, but spend the majority of their time doing one thing. In this regard, a specialized tool would be handy. In __[domain agnostic and domain specific tools](https://borretti.me/article/domain-agnostic-and-domain-specific-tools)__, F. Borretti notes that the experience of using specific tooling is often much better, and the benefits of wide tooling isn't huge. "why do people use domain-agnostic apps at all? Partly, because a lot of use-cases are too rare or ad-hoc to require specific software." We shall make ad-hoc software. The problem is that people don’t use a tool to do anything, but always something specific. On the edges of powerful software, where the task being done is not fully congruent with the software, or where the needs of the user sit on the rough edges, we have an opportunity to craft ad-hoc, delightful and specific tools. Professional softwares have expensive licences. Think Autocad, [this video](https://youtu.be/I4mdMMu-3fc?si=V2KD7mbZTgeEP7cO), multisim, Adobe and many others. By making software for a specific niche of people, we can make better and cheaper programs.
